In the previous lesson we have learned how to display
or hide elements conditionally by using v-if
v-else or v-show directive.
Now another common thing that we might encounter in
modern web development is adding or removing classes
in certain elements. If you might have used jQuery then
you can do that by making use the add class method
to add classes to certain elements or remove class
method to remove classes from certain elements.
In this lesson
we're going to learn how to do this stuff in vue js.
So in vue js we can make use of a technique
called class binding.
So class binding is a mechanism for dynamically applying
one or several classes to a particular element.
We can use the v-bind colon class directive followed by
argument. Or we can simply write colon class equal
argument. The argument itself
can be an object, array or string. If you want to apply
it conditionally more than one class to element
then you can pass an object as argument.
On the left side is a class name.
While the right side is a boolean value.
So a class will be applied when the value on the right side is true.
On the contrary if the value is false then the
class will not be applied to the element. Now
for example I have a div and I blind the class tribute
to my classes. The my classes here for example
can be defined in the data property.
Here we have alert with condition
true then alert info class
also true and alert dark is false.
Now when the page is rendered this div will have alert and
alert-info classes because besides alert dark everything
is true. Next
let's see how to pass in an array as an argument.
So in array we can define one or more classes.
The difference against objects is that all classes
that define will be applied to the element.
The following example is almost the same as before.
The difference is my classes now contains array as
you can see here we just define the class name as
array elements separated by a comma.
So as my classes that defined are alert and alert dark
then when the page is rendered the div element will
be looked like this div class
alert alert-dark.
Now what if we want to pass an array as class argument
but we also want to conditionally apply a certain class?
We can do that like this if the condition is met we
specify a class or if not met then we define an empty
string or another class.
If we take a look at this example here in this
div the class attribute bound to my classes.
Then here if the condition was false then
the class that will be return is text-dark.
Otherwise if the condition was true then
the class that will be returned is text white.
So when the page is rendered this
div element will be has text dark
if we assume the condition is false or if the condition is true then this div element will be has text
white class. Now
if you want to bind only a single class
to element then you can pass a string.
Here we bind the class attribute to my class in my class
we can define a class name text center like so. When
the page is rendered the div element will be has
text center class.
OK that's about class binding
We can dynamically apply one or several
classes to a particular element.
Now let's see in action.